 Hi, hello. So we know that this channel is about self-expression, correct?
We know that this channel is not giving therapy, it's not giving 100% correct
advice, it is things that are rooted in my own life experience and things that
I have learned from life, and it's advice that you can either take or leave
and you need to listen to everything I say with a grain of salt. We're aware of
this, that the internet is not a place you go for absolute truths, it's a place
you go for perspectives, it's a place you go for opening your mind, looking
at things a little bit differently. We're aware of that, right? I want to talk
about the truth of being yourself. YouTube has always been something that I've
felt gravitated towards because I enjoy how the people on here express who they
are and how they're feeling and what they're thinking in such an unapologetic
way, and I enjoy that being here has taught me that I am not a problem that
needs to be fixed, but rather a never-ending letter that is being written,
that I'm always a work in progress and I'm allowed to show where I am along the
process of life without being perfect and I'm allowed to show up imperfect and
not be hated for it. Now, everyone says that you should just be yourself, but
people don't understand the courage that it actually takes to stand very firm
in who you are. So I want to talk about that a little bit because I think that
we throw around the words be yourself as though it's as easy as pouring a bowl
of cereal in the morning or making a cup of coffee. It's not. Being yourself
is a battleground, being yourself is a revolution, being yourself is something
that you have to fight for because how do I explain this? My channel has always
been rooted in the intention of self-expression, saying how I'm feeling and what
I've experienced. Now, to the people watching this, some of you think that I
am an absolute authority figure. You love me, you like every one of my videos,
you think I'm the best thing in the world, and some of you think that I'm a
narcissistic idiot, I need to shut up forever and delete my channel. There's a
wide spectrum of what you guys think of me and that's to be expected. That comes
with the territory. You're allowed to have free will and think of me whatever
you want to. And I applaud that because I want you to have free thinking, I
want you to think of me however you want to. All I've wanted to do through
this channel is help myself and others. That's the intention that everything is
rooted in, self-expression and helping others. Now, everyone has a version of me
that exists within their mind. My identity is different in the minds of everyone
who views me. There is who I really am and who I am in your head and what I feel
and why I do what I do only exists within me. Unless I sit down and tell you
exactly the thought process that went into making a video, why I say the words
that I do, explain myself a million times and then like tell you my entire life
story, you're not going to understand why my instincts and my emotions are the
way they are. And who I actually am and who people think I am gets all jumbled
up in this giant soup pot. But having the version to be me means that I am going
to go against the version of me that exists within the minds of everyone who
has ever known me because I won't be acting like myself. The self that exists
within your head. The version of me that goes through the version of me that
goes through your filter, your opinions, your mindset, your view on life and
what you believe to be correct. Now, the reactions you get to being yourself
will shake your confidence so much that you conform to what others want you to
be. You will shrink under the expectations that they have of you in your mind
and you being yourself will feel like a let down to them. You will disappoint
them. You will make them angry. You will trigger them. They will hate you. They
will judge you. They will misunderstand you. Now, how do we know if we should
listen to others or listen to ourselves? If you are behaving in a way that is
kind and good and with integrity, you have good intentions. You're not harming
others. You're not harming yourself. It's just different than what you are doing
is not wrong. You're allowed to pick up and change your life at any given time,
but others will rebel. They will see what you are doing is wrong and to show
yourself will garner both support and rejection. They will see the change in
you and they will view it as a threat. They will not see how change is good for
you or how you were miserable before or how this is the best choice for you.
They will see change. They will see something different. They will see something
they disagree with. This is not a bad thing, but it's something to recognize
that when you speak out, move differently, change, it will start a spark. And
some people will be inspired by your spark, support it even, grow from your
strength of character and others will be thrown into the ocean and try to throw
water on your spark simply because they do not understand it. And in our lizard
brains, we are taught to go against anything that we do not understand. And
when you change jobs, speak your mind, dress differently, post on social media
or move across the country, you will learn, you will lose people. You will
lose a lot more than you think and you will face a lot of adversity for being
yourself. And here's why that's a good thing. You will lose everything that
is holding you back and you will learn lessons that will give you strength on
the path that you are following from this adversity. And being yourself is a
lonely road that requires detachment and more emotional strength that no one
talks about. And like I said, being yourself is a battleground. And if you're
confused about what being yourself means, being yourself is the central idea to
take ownership of yourself, your identity, your actions, your life and make sure
it's something that you are happy with. It's being constantly confident, happy,
loving, comfortable, growing and evolving with ease within your life. It's
about honoring your change because you're not the same as you were as a kid.
You like tomatoes now. You don't watch Fetch with Rough Roughman or SpongeBob
or Arthur, maybe you do, I don't know you. You have more knowledge and wisdom,
which in turn changes your character. And you also need to honor whatever it
is that you feel is necessary for you to do because it might not be a forever
thing, but it's something you have to do to understand more about yourself so
you can move along the path. Like let me give you this example. I'm not a steak
person. I was vegan for like two years in the past and I'm just, I'm not a big
meat person in general, especially steak. I'm not a steak person and I had a
wild craving for a rare ribeye the other day. I don't know what it was, but I
ate one and I felt incredible, but my steak craving didn't go away and I kept
like, I, for three days straight, I swear I ate like ribeye steaks two times
a day. I was eating good. I was eating good. Let's put it that way. And I felt
really good, but I was like, why am I eating all this steak all of a sudden? I
don't like steak. And then I realized maybe you're iron deficient, Bailey. Maybe
you're iron deficient. And I went to the store, I got a whole bunch of liquid
iron and I drank like half the bottle. I suddenly felt better and my steak
craving went away. But what I'm saying is our cravings, what our soul wants,
whether it's food, experiences, people, new environments, a change of pace. And
like I said, don't harm yourself and don't harm others, but experiences that we
want to have mean something. When we are feeling it in our gut that something
is right for us, it might not be in our life forever, but it's something we
need to experience to learn more about ourselves. It's something we need to go
through to lead us back to who we are. But if we do not allow ourselves to have
that moment of pure self expression or that experience, we would never know
that thing about ourselves and then we can't take the next step from that step.
Does that make sense? There have been times when I threw myself into something
new and it quite literally saved me. Like I moved to a new city overnight.
I ended friendships and it felt liberating. There have been things that just
they felt right and this is what I have to do. And I knew it was going to be a
new situation. People were going to question what I was doing. They were going
to question what I was saying. They were going to try to stop me. They were
going to disagree before they tried to understand me. And I barely had enough
confidence to do it myself and I was questioning myself constantly whether it
was the right thing or not, even though my gut was screaming at me. So I barely
had enough confidence to do it myself, but not only did I need enough confidence
to convince myself to do it, I also had to fight against everyone that was
expecting an explanation. So when you made the commitment to stand in your
confidence, make sure that you pack extra for all the people who will not be
in support of you because being yourself isn't being soft. It's not palatable.
It's not marketable. It is gritty and gut wrenching and it's standing naked in
a world that sells costumes. It's also the only path you can take if you want to
finally breathe. I truly believe that there is a place for every single one of
us in this world. There are things that each and every one of us should be doing
to feel at ease and at peace and that there is a purpose for each and every one
of us. We just have to go out into the world and find it and finding it will
be a walk through dark woods with no map. And if we don't allow ourselves to go
down the wrong path, if we don't allow ourselves to mess up, if we don't allow
ourselves to be judged and have other people tell us we're stupid and awful
for even going into the woods, if we do not allow ourselves the pain of being
judged and the pain of being misunderstood and the pain of people saying that
we are stupid and horrible and losers, we will never find ourselves. You will
not be understood by everyone. And if you are waiting for permission to change,
to speak, to walk away, to cry, to rise, to be fully you, this is it. Let them
talk. Let them misunderstand and let them fall away and let yourself begin.
Because if I listened to everyone else around me and the vision that they had
for my future and what they thought of me, I would be so fucking miserable. And
the most powerful thing you can do in this life is live as you. Do what feels
right. Unapologetically, unfiltered, unedited. And that's where the real story
is going to begin. That's where you're going to feel at home.
